# Home Lab

I've been working on a homelab for awhile now. I got a dell r720 off of amazon and decided I was going to do something with it back in december. Since then I've aquired a decomissioned hp proliant DL380 G6 from work, a cisco switch from work (not even sure what it is), a cisco catalyst 3750, and an old dell computer that I put a new NIC into so I can run a PFsense box as a router on a stick. The game plan is to set it all up as some sort of cyber homelab that I can practice things on and put on my resume, but since I don't have a ton of free time a lot of this has fallen to the wayside. I plan to get it picked back up and finished. 

## What I want to do

- [ ] I want to set up a SIEM like Splunk or something of the sort to practice with. 

- [ ] I want to set up different vlans so that I can put other things on the servers without overlapping my home traffic with the cyber stuff

- [ ] I want to set up a game server of some kind and self host it as a fun side project for me and friends

- [ ] I want to set up PF Sense as a router on a stick and keep it in between my home router, and my switch. I would like to treat it as a broken version of what a DMZ would be. 

- [ ] I want to set up an AD server and practice Active Directory, and possibly pentesting. I bought the PNPT awhile ago I just haven't had time to go through it. (I'm currently trying to learn python and have been stuck on that)

- [ ] I want to set up a Dev enviornment that I can VPN into and use through my browser. Something like VS Code in the browser, but actually be able to debug test and save locally using a DFS

- [ ] Learn more about Type 1 hypervisors and their limitations

- [ ] Set up a malware test environment

- [ ] Set up mulitple machines that I can VNC into and play with things and then just reset them when I break or want to start over

- [ ] Use this to learn how to set up VPN and secure it

- [ ] Possibly figure out how to implement MFA if I can get that far

## What I've actually accomplished so far

Not much in all honesty. I've had the machines starting around January of this year, and I've gotten VMWare ESXI installed, PFSense Installed, finally got the switch play nice with pfsense and my home router, installed and uninstalled multiple virtual machines, and eventually nuked everything and started over when I got new hard drives and realized how I messed up with my RAID setup. 

Everything I've done so far has not been without some form of struggle on my end. All of it almost 100 percent my fault. Needless to say I had no idea going into this what I was getting myself into, and I've seen a ton of things on the internet about doing all of this on a local machine or in the cloud, so I thought well I have to learn how to use servers and virtual machines anyway, why not start here. 

## All Aboard the Struggle Bus. Today I will be your conductor, and you can see the shitshow I've created for myself along the way. 

In all honesty it hasn't been that bad, more annoying than anything. The things I had trouble with I would've easily worked through if I slowed down, or had more time to work with them. Before graduating I had limited time at night after work/family/school to actually work on things, so a lot of things were started, and then restarted because I had no idea what I was doing or where I messed up. 

# Misconceptions I had and how I fixed them:

### 1. I didn't realize when setting up RAID not to mix hard drive sizes, because the allocation size will default to the smallest size. 


I'm completely new to enterprise and server hardware. I have absolutely no idea what I'm doing with most of these things with the exception that I can open it up and name the parts of the computer. I don't get much exposure at work with much of these technologies because they are above me, so I decided to try them at home. After all, what's the worst that could happen.


I had 2 240gig hard drives, and a 1 tb solid state drive. I set the 240gig drives up first and then the 1tb drive as I got it later. Since they don't go evenly into each other I ended up with space on a hard drive that I couldn't access as part of my raid. The hard drive was space was allocated in 240gig sections essentiall from how I understand it. I'm sure there is a way to fix this, or change the allocation size, but I haven't figured it out yet. I also learned that raid defaults to the slowest speed of the hard drives in the raid, so you also shouldn't mix a solid state drive with a spinning disk drive. You can but probably shouldn't. 



### 2. PF Sense comes with some configuration already on it, and you need to set it up properly before you can use it. 


Up until this point I had studied for my CCNA and was used to switches and routers with zero configuration on it already. So when I tried to set up the pfsense, I could not for the life of me figure out why nothing was working. Turns out PF Sense comes "out of the box" with some configuration already on it so that it's somewhat secure. Who knew, probably anybody who was paying attention, but not me. 

I had to change the IP addresses of the ports manually, because I have it inside a network and it comes by default set to not accept private ip address on the outside port(at one point I actually thought it was pulling private IP address on the WAN port but it actually wasn't, I was setting a default IP on the wrong interface). It comes set up to be connected to an outside network so it makes sense why private IP addresses would be blocked. Since it was inside my network I needed to turn off NAT until I could get everything else working *(I'm not actually sure if this was a problem, but I can see how natting things twice can cause problems)*. I needed to set up an Implicit Allow in the firewall so that it would actually route traffic. By default every ACL has an Implicit Deny at the bottom, so without any set up it's basically set to deny all traffic. My problems, and revelations with PF Sense aren't over, so I'll have to report back as I finish the home lab. 

I even wrote a huge reddit post which I didn't post, because I figured it out after spending a ton of time trying to figure it out. 




>>Ok so I'm new to homelab, been a lurker for awhile, so I apologize if these questions don't belong in this sub, or if they've been answered already. I can't seem to find them through googling. I installed PFsense on an old Dell computer I had lying around and want to use it as a firewall for my homelab. My internet is upstairs, and the lab is downstairs, so there is a router between Pfsense and the internet. 
>>No matter what I do I cannot get the dashboard. I've tried setting this up multiple ways and reinstalling pfsense thinking I messed up the install, and everything I can think of short of bringing it upstairs and plugging it in as my main router (not an option based on location). 
>>At first I would plug my internet cord coming downstairs into the WAN port on my pfsense box, and tried DHCP while plugging the LAN port into my switch. The PFsense box does pull a local IP for the WAN device. I'm not sure if this causes issues as it's a private IP address, but it can ping the default gateway. I plugged the LAN portion into my switch cisco catalyst ws-c3750x-24p. I've only recently gotten this switch and haven't really used it, so I thought the switch was faulty. Reset factory defaults on switch cannot ping PFsense box when my pc is plugged into switch, or get to web configurator. 
>>Second attempt I plugged internet cord from upstairs into wan port and assigned a static IP address on both the WAN and LAN interfaces plugged into the switch. Allowed PFsense box to do DHCP on LAN since I could not figure out how to make it a DHCP relay in the menu. Unable to ping from computer to Pfsense box or get to web configurator. 
>>Attempt 2.5, I assume it's the switch and try an old netgear nighthawk I have lying around because I know it works plug and play zero set up. Figure maybe even with nothing set up and default something is stopping the cisco switch from just passing the packets. nothing, computer doesn't even get an IP address. I even verified that the netgear works by using it between my pc and the router upstairs. 
>>Third attempt I reinstall pfsense assuming I messed up the install somehow. I didn't change any options from default, but maybe there is something I missed. After reinstall plugged internet from upstairs into pfsense box, and my computer directly into the LAN port. PFsense pulls a private IP address for wan via DHCP (as I said it's inside my network and not on the outside.) and I assign a private IP address to the LAN interface, and set up a DHCP pool. Do an ipconfig /renew pc actually pulls an IP address from the pool I assigned, and sets the Pfsense box as it's default gateway.
>>Still cannot ping pfsense box from pc, no internet, cannot get to webconfigurator via LAN IP, even though pfsense had a message you can now access webconfigurator via this IP. PFsense can ping router upstairs (it's default gateway), checked router configuration online, it shows pfsense as connected and verified nothing is blocked, and no services are being blocked on anything. On pfsense box pinged both WAN and LAN interfaces and both are up and got their pings back, figured they would but just for shiggles. Tried pinging pc with PFsense and get a Ping:Sendto:Host is down message. So pfsense will not ping my pc even after giving it a DHCP address, I can't ping it or get to any kind of configuration page, and I've googled and worked on this for like 3 weeks after my baby goes to bed, finally asking for help. 
>>I recently passed my CCNA and like I'm questioning whether I actually understand networking at this time. If anyone has suggestions other than set the whole thing on fire and call a priest for the exorcism that would be greatly appreciated. Sorry for the long post just lost and frustrated at the moment, and I'm assuming there is something I'm just not seeing or thinking of. Thanks in advance.





### 3. Slow down take your time, and remember what you learned previously.


I was forced to remember my CCNA training. with all the trouble the PF Sense box was giving me, I could not tell if the switch I had was actually working. Basically the PF Sense box would not work with anything, and when I plugged into my switch it also worked with nothing. This was especially difficult when trying to pass through DHCP. It made troubleshooting especially difficult, because in order to google things and try fixes I was unplugging and replugging in my computer to try it get internet, and try it again. 

It was all me being stupid, but I did eventually remember how to get it working. I tried a ton of different things, I played with the vlans, set up static IP addresses, cleared configs over and over, and I even set up OSPF on my switch to see if it would discover my other router by some miracle. 

Turns out I'm just dumb and set up trunking on the wrong port. I had also completely forgotten about IP helper addresses when doing layer 2 switching. The router can do layer 3, but I've decided to try and keep it layer 2 for simplicity. I accidentally figured it out when slowing down and taking my time. I took one last look at the config set trunking on the correct port, and noticed the pfsense box would disappear if I unplugged a different port. After that it was a matter of setting up DHCP passthrough for everything. 

I set the vlan to dhcp, and set it the ip helper address to my edge router. I still need to create and fix my vlans, but that will come as I get my PF Sense, and rest of the home lab set up. I also set up my VTY lines with username and passwords and set it up so that I can SSH into the box from my computer instead of going to get my laptop and console cable everytime I want to change a config. 

### 4. Understanding Virtual Machine's

This I still don't quite have a handle on, but can talk about some things I've messed up. I definitely did not pay attention to some of my intial VM set ups and can tell you from experience trying to run a steam server with 1 cpu is painfully slow. 

I need to figure out a *"best practices"* when trying to set up VM's. I did learn that a Thin provision is when the virtual disk consumes only the space initially needed during the install, and grows later with demand, and that Thick provisioning uses all of the space when being set up so that other VM's can't take that unused space. 

I learned about the RAID issue above because of space issues I had for my virtual disks. I definitely provisioned machines with to much hard drive space as well for what I was trying to do with them, as well as some with not enough. It has taught me a bit of patience and helped me quite a bit with learning linux. 

I have currently set up most of the machines to run Ubuntu for things like splunk(yet to be set up), Valheim server, and hopefully eventually a development server I can access from my browser. I struggled at first, but I feel much better about moving around the file system within the terminal. I do still have some issues downloading things off the internet, since it's a headless install (no GUI). I basically need to find it on my computer then run a wget command in the console to download the things I need, atleast that has been my solution so far. I know there are better ways to do things, I just need to come across them as I go. 

I tend to over complicate things unintentionally, usually by rushing through things, or trying to do more than I should at the outset. This has both helped me learn things I wouldn't have otherwise known to look for, and cause a bit of a headache. I try to anticipate what I need/want without first making sure what I'm trying to do will work, or is even possible with what I'm working with. 