# Yet Another Update - School/Career

So I finished my capstone project and applied for graduation last week. I've been taking it a little easier and haven't really applied myself other than occasionally studying for the CCSP which I take in roughly 5 weeks. I definitely need to hit that hard, but am lacking motivation at the moment. It has just recently dawned on me I really need to narrow down what I want to do now. Like what do I want out of a job, and what do I want for my career. Now that I've tenatively finished school what are my next steps and how do I work towards getting what I want. 

What do I want? I'm not entirely sure to be honest. I have small vague goals in that aspect. I'm tired of living paycheck to paycheck and would like to make enough to actually save, live a comfortable life, and not worry about money. Would love to be able to make my wife a stay at home mom if we so chose. I would like the option to travel and/or work from home. 

The pentest option has always interested me, but the thing that was interesting me the most recently was reverse engineering and malware development/exploit writing. I really don't think I have the skill necessary to hop into any of this in a professional sense right now, and am not positive on where to start. Atleast from a job perspective. I believe I have the tools to practice and gain necessary skills, but I would like a job that will help me work on/gather the skills necessary to meet that end goal. Like I don't want to be working in data entry if my end goal is Network Admin, I'd rather be working in the networking side so it's a move up not a move over. Not sure if that makes sense. 

When I first started this I just knew I wanted to do something in cyber security because the field interested me. I wasn't sure what I wanted but being a pentester, like everyone else who inevitably jumps into cybersecurity, seemed to be the most interesting thing and thats what I wanted to do. However I didn't really care what I ended up doing as long as I was working in the field, now I know what I don't want to do...kind of. I'm not interested in much of the legal aspect of Cybersecurity. Digital Forensics is still a neat concept but I'm not sure I'm interested in that at the moment because of the red tape and chain of custody, etc. Much like everything I'm sure once you are actually doing it, it's not an issue and becomes second nature and depending on who you are working for and what you are doing the law side might not come up much. I'm also sure that the "Legal aspect of Cybersecurity" is everywhere and there is no avoiding it. I just meant like directly working with laws/lawyers keeping track of what is or isn't legal and how it applies to your case type of thing. The more I write about how I don't want to work with laws in cyber, the dumber it sounds because everything has some form of law/legality/rules to it. I know what I mean and it's hard for me to put into words. I think working towards the goal of becoming a penetration tester is what I set out to in the beginning and I should finish it. Even if it's just to say I did it. I was a employed pentester and did that work.  

Currently working helpdesk at my current Job. I have been told eventually a position is being made for me that will be a network specialist role, but don't have many details at the moment other than wait and more details to come. This has been in the talks for awhile now, and just now recently was handed a job description so maybe it's happening maybe it's not. The question comes down to: Do I stay where I am currently or do I move to something new, get my bearings and start working towards my goals somewhere else. I'm actually terrible at making these decisions because I often do and will fall into complacency, not so much with my work, but with actually having the drive to leave. Like if it doesn't hurt I will stay somewhere forever even if it's not good for me or my situation. 

So where do I go from here? I need to put dates on these goals and see where I end up. The first one is easy. I have to take the CCSP on June 26th. Other than that I'm free to finally study things that interest me and do the things that I want. I need to jump deep into CCSP once that is finished I'll feel better about putting dates to the rest of these. I'll get the homelab set back up and at least turned on, and do at least 1 hour of coding a day. I'm going to start with C and go from there. I'm going to work on PNPT first finish it, possibly test, and then do the Malware Class. I'll probably work on TryHackMe in between all this or when the PNPT starts to get dry or I need a break. I've been catching up on my League of Legends but that probably needs to come to an end here shortly. I tend to neglect other things when it comes to gaming, and I really need to get all this figured out. I'm only getting older and life is definitely not slowing down any. I need to refocus and figure out what is important to me. I need to apply myself to my next set of goals and keep moving. Don't let small distractions pull me away from where I'm heading.  




Goals:

CCSP: June 26th.
PNPT:
TryHackMe:
Malware Analysis & Reverse Engineering: 